# Chapter 1

Relaxing on a branch of a bare-leafed tree, I watch as a modest boat sails away
into the night. The dual moons shine brightly through a cloudless sky while the
calm waters of the Gulf reflect a lone torch on the vessel, bobbing up and down
as its passengers move around and settle into a long journey home. There are
four of them; it looks like the older lady is taking the first shift navigating.

*Dalila…*

A gentle wind blew in from the south, shifting around the top layers of sand on
the beach below me. I took a deep breath of the cool night air, the first in a
while.

*How long have I been here?* I wasn’t sure anymore, although it must have been
at least a half dozen months. In the grand scheme of things, that length of time
is nothing.

I remained in the tree for a few more minutes, thinking about the events that
transpired about a few hours before. A shiver. Anyone hearing a transcription of
them would call it a comedic play. I realized that any of my peers would have
scoffed at my lack of strength, my moment of weakness. “Stooping so low, Miss
Eirlys? Begging for help? Pitiful, especially for someone of your… caliber.”

My mind wandered. *How long does adrenaline usually last?* In any case, any that
did course through my veins has long since stopped. Suddenly, feeling a wave of
tiredness, I couldn’t even stay balanced hanging off of this branch. I drop
down, tumble right-side-up, and eventually land on my true two feet on the brisk
sand. To my right, my trusty weapon partially sticking out from the ground. A
weak smile escaped from my lips, like a small token of thanks. I pick it up and
use it to support myself as my legs drag along the ground towards the cave
entry. Another breeze comes through the beach, rustling my messy, bloody hair.
My gaze follows its path towards the water; the ship all but a speck in the
horizon.

I blink a few times and brushed a few grains of sand off of my face. *I’ll see
you all again, I’m sure of it. Fate will cross our paths again.*