# Chapter 4

Even after getting the grime out of my hair and dirt from my skin, a commoner
would still take me for a beggar given the poor excuse for clothes I still had.
Fortunately, there is a sign located near the tavern that advertises a clothing
store off the main road northward from Westtown Grove. My third destination.

It has only been about ten minutes since I left the inside of the tavern, but a
quick look inside the open door revealed a missing Ivory Falls.

_Likely to be off bothering someone else._

Usually, I would physically separate myself from such an annoying conversation.
There are always more important tasks to be completed than entertaining a
pointless offer. That being said, getting familiar with the city of Pacifica -
and more generally the nation of Spaelor - takes priority. Sticking out any more
than necessary is an easy way to get more attention. As I have no information
about the Church of Athar, taking a stroll into the unknown organization would
be incredibly naive, especially because they wanted to hunt me down.

Therefore, staying low is the best plan for now. And staying low means acting
like a weary but polite adventurer.

“Oh, hello! Welcome, welcome!” The shopkeeper greets his new guest with a
surprising amount of morning vigor. As I step inside the clothing store, the
scents of leather polish, spun rolls of wool, and crisp sheets of linen greet me
with similar enthusiasm. A few colorful rugs decorate an otherwise plain floor
lined neatly with half-stocked shelves.

“Nice to meet you, sir.”

“And you as well, miss! My first customer of the day, how may I help you? Ah-
Actually, before you speak. Let me guess, you need a new change of clothes! Why
else would you be here, of course? Silly me. Are you looking for something quick
and easy or something more fine-tailored to your tastes and preferences? Ah- Of
course, I can work with whatever budget you have!” The shopkeeper stops rambling
as he waits for my answer.

“Hmm… I would like two outfits made for me and something I can purchase right
now to get out of these rags. A new pair of boots as well. Would fifteen gold
suffice for everything?”

“Oh, yes! Of course! Please, take a seat,” as the overly-friendly human gestures
in front of him. “Let’s talk about what you’d like and I can get started
immediately! Oh, pardon my manners! My name is Bren, my store’s name is Clothes
by Bren, but I’m sure you saw that coming in.” He takes out a notebook and pen
with his scrawny but seemingly agile hands as I sit down.

<br />

The next thirty minutes were spent hashing out the details of what I wanted to
disguise myself with. On one hand, Bren did not ask any questions as to why the
specifics were as described. Unfortunately, however, the entire process could
have been cut in half if the shopkeeper did not explain the minutiae of
everything in his store and his tailoring process. At his conclusion, I pay an
extra few gold to expedite the fulfillment of the two custom sets of clothes.

“Oh, that won’t really be necessary. It’s not like I have too much of a backlog
nowadays, you know?”

I raise my eyebrow.

“Yeah, I had a small queue of orders a few weeks ago in preparation for the
celebrations earlier this week, but that’s… all done now…”

_He has somehow shut up._

“Gods, I wish this war would be over. Back then, this business,” Bren waves at
his wares, “was about art! I enjoyed making my clients look great for a fancy
dinner or a beautiful wedding, or be comfortable during their work or out doing
adventurers’ quests… Now, it’s mostly just boring uniforms for the, well, very
brave soldiers out there. It’s an important job, and I’m glad to help however I
can. But, wouldn’t it just be better if they just stopped fighting? Everyone
would be happier, I’m sure. And I can get back to making art!”

I nod. “Yes, me too.”

“… Oh, I’m terribly sorry. Give me a few minutes to gather the set that you
wanted right now.”

A few minutes later, the tailor comes back. “Here you go. There’s a small room
over there by the left if you’d like.”

“Please and thank you.”

I head over to the room and lock the door behind me. A modest changing room
without signs of intrusion. I doff my old tunic and don my new attire. Basic
dark blue collared shirt, tucked into dark brown trousers, tucked into new
leather boots, accompanied by fingerless leather gloves, and a modest hooded
khaki cape. Everything fits well enough for a temporary solution, if a bit
short. In any case, the mirror reveals a simple traveler…

I tie up my hip-length steel-gray hair into a loose bundle. A small grin crawls
onto my face as I contemplate the sharp figure.

<br />

My old clothes get placed into the small bag my new clothes were in; that, in
turn, gets stuffed into my satchel. As I leave the room, I give my thanks to
Bren and head out the main door before he can put in more than one compliment.
He has taken much of my attention already.

I quickly ask a friendly-looking passerby for directions to the “center of the
city”, to which I am asked whether I want “The Bazaar” or the “Balegil Gardens”.
He explains that the former is home to the largest block of vendors in the city,
while the latter home to locations such as the town hall and an adventurer’s
guild.

“Balegil Gardens, where is that?”

“You’re really new to the city, huh? Over there, to the west up on top of that
big hill over there. Can’t miss it.”

I give my thanks and then set off to the west with Solus accompanying me near
her highest point.

<br />

---

<br />

The path to get to my destination was a bit longer than expected. While the
distance itself from Westtown Grove to Balegil Gardens is not very far -
certainly, a quick flight would make short work of it - the trip took about
thirty minutes on foot. The physical trip was no issue for me, but an
inconspicuous walk was much slower than air travel. There is one main route into
the district, located in the north. The hill itself is maybe 100 feet above sea
level, forcing the path to not only be a bit steep but also wind back and forth
a few times.

The entrance to the Gardens is marked by a tall stone archway at the end of the
entry route. Fortunately, there are many signs that guide newcomers of the city
towards the areas of interest. I make my way over to the Adventurer’s Guild.

Pacifica is clearly a city with much wealth and resources. Both the buildings
and people of the city are fairly well-adorned, from my observations. However,
Balegil Gardens is noticeably more striking. The separation of the district is
not only physical from being located on a hill, but also material. Construction
of the homes are built to a higher standard with polished stone and rich lumber,
the commuting roads are nicely paved with stone, the street lamps are
intricately designed, and a colorful palette of goods mark open businesses. In
contrast to the somewhat hushed groups of the people below, the voices of
residents and visitors of the Gardens join together in a busy hubbub.

However, the road from the entrance proved short, quickly opening up after a few
turns to what seems to be the main attraction. A sign proudly introduces the
ornate building: \
“White Iron Palace: Est. Year 1627 of Our Savior”

Many of the previous directional signs point towards this “Palace”, so it
appears that everything is housed within. Paved stone turned into marble stairs
that lead to the entrance: a pair of open doors that tower above not only myself
but also the buildings I had walked past. The majority of traffic heads inward
through a quick and orderly queue. A few yards in front of me, a human mother
and father try to calm their child, who seems to be oddly excited about visiting
this place.

Making my way through the doors and into the Palace, my senses are overwhelmed
by a new but cold scent of stone and marble that replaces the salty air from the
outside. Green stained glass windows that stretch along the tall marble walls
and up to the ceiling allow ample light inside. Around me are armored guards
standing silently at the ready if they see any unwanted visitors, while the
hallway echoes with the clacking of shoes and conversation.

Signage continues to be good. They suggest there is at least: the city hall, a
church to some sort of Umberlee, a medical ward, many master artisans, an
orphanage, a jailhouse, and the Adventurer’s Guild.

As I make my way over to the Guild, the number of indistinct people begins to
drop. Crowds of families, merchants, and tradespeople are replaced by groups of
adventurers from every lineage, every size, and every kind. Businesses operating
in this section of the Palace seem to be catering towards them as well.

Most importantly, nobody appears to pay me any mind.

<br />

A few minutes later, I arrive at an entrance flanked by, yet again, another pair
of opened doors. Only this time, they were made of dark stained wood. I continue
forward-

“Oops, sorry madam,” a satyr coming from within bumps my left arm.

_Madam? How old…_

My train of thought is suddenly interrupted by a fairy popping up on my right
side. “Welcome to the Pacifica Adventurer’s Guild!” she squeals. “How can I help
you?”

“Yes, yes. I’m looking for some work,” I answer, a bit annoyed.

“Of course! Right this way please!”

This Guild sticks out from the rest of the White Iron Palace both in location
and appearance. The entire Guild room stretches out far but not very wide, like
a peninsula. Wood and stone make up most of the interior, providing a more cozy
feeling compared to the almost sterile hallway I came out from. Various
tapestries of emblems and crests adorn the walls, while the floors are populated
with tables and seats. Chatter fills the room from the various adventurers
discussing the division of work and bragging about their latest conquests.

“Here is the job board! Take a look at what has been posted and come over to one
of the kind helpers over here when you find something!” The fairy takes her
leave to greet the next individual.

I gaze over the medley of fliers tacked onto the board. _Hmm… Most of these are
unsurprisingly related to the war effort…_

“Hey miss, you lookin’ for a job?” Suddenly to my right, a voice tries to get my
attention.

“Why else would I be here?”

Shifting my attention, I see a tiefling with a stupid grin on his face before
me.

“You’re a funny one, yeah? Well, me and my buddies have some boring work lined
up, gotta get some rich guy’s stuff back. We could use someone like you to…
liven it up a bit, whaddaya say?”

“Sorry, not interested.”

“Ah, come on-”

“No.”

“... Hmph. Fine, girlie. See you around then.”

“No you will not,” I say under my breath.

<br />

After a few minutes undisturbed, my perusal yields what I’m looking for: a
request from  the Church of Athar, who sent out multiple parties to find me. I
unpin the flier and take a few paces from the right of the board to a
receptionist.

“Hello! Sorry about the men over there, they don’t mean any harm but don’t pay
them much attention.”

“Was not planning on it, thank you.”

“Have you found what you are looking for?” the human asks.

“It depends. Here.” I hand over the flier. “Is everything set up and ready to
go, or do I have to meet the client?” I ask, referring to the Church.

“Not at all! As you can see here,” she points at a stamp, “there is already a
small adventuring party that has taken this quest, but needs some extra help. Is
that okay with you?”

“Depends on who is in the party, but probably yes.”

“Great! My apologies, but I don’t recognize you. Are you new here, miss?”

“Yes, I just arrived in the city.”

“Welcome to the city of Pacifica then!”

The receptionist asks me to fill out a form and provides me a small token with a
unique number on it, identifying myself in the Adventurer’s Guild. She says that
I can meet the party the next morning in this Guild hall and that we can go from
there. I thank her and ask for some recommendations.

After receiving them, I take my leave.

“We look forward to seeing you soon, Grayce!”

I return a nod and head back towards the center of the Palace. On the way, I
make a quick stop by a leatherworker to pick up a new satchel to replace my old
one, with a request to modify the strap so that I can quickly tighten it against
myself. A half hour later, the new satchel, still smelling vaguely bovine,
adorns my side. I make my way over to the center of the Palace, where signs
direct me to many metalsmiths. A modest one - for the area, at least - receives
a few coins from me in exchange for a boring but well crafted longsword, which
goes on my left hip.

<br />

With nothing else to do in the Palace, I head back outside and eventually down
the hill that casts a shadow over the western part of the city. It seems to be
about 3 o’clock in the afternoon now. A leisurely stroll northwest from the
Balegil Gardens leads to what the guild receptionist claims to be the largest
library in Pacifica.

Aptly named “Pacifica Library”, a humble log building stands behind simple
signage. Two stories tall, but more lean than stout. Inside, a dwarven librarian
greets me and asks if I need any help, to which I ask for literature about
monsters in the wild.

“You’ll find them on the shelves on this side of the library,” he gestures.
“That’s a popular section for smart adventurers like yourself. It’s always very
useful to learn about any potential threats before heading on a quest. Let me
know if I can help, but I won’t bother you otherwise. Take your time.”

The interior of this library is simple but well adorned with books, scrolls,
tablets, and many other literature spread across a half-dozen bookshelves that
stretch far back. A slightly musty smell of old paper fills the cool air. Most
of the noise that can be heard inside comes from the exterior crowds, but there
are a few people reading on the chairs near the entrance.

<br />

I, however, spent the remainder of the afternoon and evening searching for any
information about the gelatinous enemy I had faced a few days prior. Title after
title, page after page, paragraph after paragraph. Stories about common goblins,
descriptions of powerful dragons, warnings regarding wild fey, legends of
fearsome sea monsters. Eventually, Luna’s moonlight trickles in, sharpening my
concentration until-

_There._

I finally arrive at a small old book about oozes and other amorphous creatures.
The cover flies open as I read through the contents.

And read.

And read…

_Nothing. Damn, it’s all fantastical stories and tall tales. What a waste of
time._

As the book returns to its place on the shelf, I look back towards the front.
The librarian had changed sometime in the past few hours and the crackle of
lanterns filled the silence. I spend a few more minutes looking through the
remainder of the texts I picked out.

No success. _Hmph._

I make sure no traces of my short stay remain and head towards the door.

“Did you find what you were looking for, dear?” This time, an elderly dwarf is
at the desk.

“Yes I did, thank you madam.” A blatant lie.

“Glad to hear. Have a good evening and stay safe out there.”

I nod and step into the refreshing night breeze.
